docs/install/configuration/ai_endpoints.md, before:

---
title: ✅ Compatible AI Endpoints
description: List of known, compatible AI Endpoints with example setups for the `librechat.yaml` AKA the LibreChat Custom Config file.
weight: -9
---

# Compatible AI Endpoints

## Intro

This page lists known, compatible AI Endpoints with example setups for the `librechat.yaml` file, also known as the [Custom Config](./custom_config.md#custom-endpoint-object-structure) file.

In all of the examples, arbitrary environment variable names are defined but you can use any name you wish, as well as changing the value to `user_provided` to allow users to submit their own API key from the web UI.

Some of the endpoints are marked as **Known,** which means they might have special handling and/or an icon already provided in the app for you.

## Anyscale
> Anyscale API key: [anyscale.com/credentials](https://app.endpoints.anyscale.com/credentials)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided, fetching list of models is recommended.

```yaml
    - name: "Anyscale"
      apiKey: "${ANYSCALE_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.endpoints.anyscale.com/v1"
      models:
        default: [
          "meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf",
          ]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "Anyscale"
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/9f2d8ad9-3f49-4fe3-a3ed-c85994c1c85f)

## APIpie

> APIpie API key: [apipie.ai/dashboard/profile/api-keys](https://apipie.ai/dashboard/profile/api-keys)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided, fetching list of models is recommended as API token rates and pricing used for token credit balances when models are fetched.

- **Known issue:** 
  - Fetching list of models is not supported.
  - Your success may vary with conversation titling
  - Stream isn't currently supported (but is planned as of April 24, 2024)
  - Certain models may be strict not allow certain fields in which case, you should use [`dropParams`.](./custom_config.md#dropparams)

??? tip "Fetch models"
    This python script can fetch and order the llm models for you. The output will be saved in models.txt, formated in a way that should make it easier for you to include in the yaml config.

    Replace `<YOUR_API_KEY_HERE>` with your actual APIpie API key

    ```py title="fetch.py"
    import json
    import requests

    def fetch_and_order_models():
        # API endpoint
        url = "https://apipie.ai/models?type=llm"

        # headers as per request example
        headers = {
            'Accept': 'application/json',
            'X-API-key': '<YOUR_API_KEY_HERE>'
        }

        # make request
        response = requests.request("GET", url, headers=headers)

        # parse JSON response
        data = json.loads(response.text)

        # extract an ordered list of unique model IDs
        model_ids = sorted(set(model['id'] for model in data))

        # add quotes around model_ids and newlines for each model
        quoted_model_ids = ['  "' + str(model_id) + '",\n' for model_id in model_ids]

        # construct the output string
        output_str = 'models:\n  default: [\n' + ''.join(quoted_model_ids) + ']\n'

        # remove last comma and newline
        output_str = output_str.rstrip(',\n') + '\n'

        # write result to a text file
        with open('models.txt', 'w') as file:
            file.write(output_str)

    # execute the function
    if __name__ == '__main__':
        fetch_and_order_models()
    ```

```yaml
    # APIpie
    - name: "APIpie"
      apiKey: "${APIPIE_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://apipie.ai/v1/"
      models:
        default: [
          "gpt-4",
          "gpt-4-turbo",
          "gpt-3.5-turbo",
          "claude-3-opus",
          "claude-3-sonnet",
          "claude-3-haiku",
          "llama-3-70b-instruct",
          "llama-3-8b-instruct",
          "gemini-pro-1.5",
          "gemini-pro",
          "mistral-large",
          "mistral-medium",
          "mistral-small",
          "mistral-tiny",
          "mixtral-8x22b",
          ]
        fetch: false
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "claude-3-haiku"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "claude-3-haiku"
      dropParams: ["stream"]
      modelDisplayLabel: "APIpie"
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/b6a21524-b309-4a51-8b88-c280fb330af4)


## Cohere
> Cohere API key: [dashboard.cohere.com](https://dashboard.cohere.com/)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided.
- Experimental: does not follow OpenAI-spec, uses a new method for endpoint compatibility, shares some similarities and parameters.
- For a full list of Cohere-specific parameters, see the [Cohere API documentation](https://docs.cohere.com/reference/chat).
- Note: The following parameters are recognized between OpenAI and Cohere. Most are removed in the example config below to prefer Cohere's default settings:
    - `stop`: mapped to `stopSequences`
    - `top_p`: mapped to `p`, different min/max values
    - `frequency_penalty`: mapped to `frequencyPenalty`, different min/max values
    - `presence_penalty`: mapped to `presencePenalty`, different min/max values
    - `model`: shared, included by default.
    - `stream`: shared, included by default.
    - `max_tokens`: shared, mapped to `maxTokens`, not included by default.


```yaml
    - name: "cohere"
      apiKey: "${COHERE_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.cohere.ai/v1"
      models:
        default: ["command-r","command-r-plus","command-light","command-light-nightly","command","command-nightly"]
        fetch: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "cohere"
      titleModel: "command"
      dropParams: ["stop", "user", "frequency_penalty", "presence_penalty", "temperature", "top_p"]
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/110412045/03549e00-243c-4539-ac9a-0d782af7cd6c)


## Fireworks
> Fireworks API key: [fireworks.ai/api-keys](https://fireworks.ai/api-keys)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided, fetching list of models is recommended.
- - API may be strict for some models, and may not allow fields like `user`, in which case, you should use [`dropParams`.](./custom_config.md#dropparams)

```yaml
    - name: "Fireworks"
      apiKey: "${FIREWORKS_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.fireworks.ai/inference/v1"
      models:
        default: [
          "accounts/fireworks/models/mixtral-8x7b-instruct",
          ]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "accounts/fireworks/models/llama-v2-7b-chat"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "accounts/fireworks/models/llama-v2-7b-chat"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "Fireworks"
      dropParams: ["user"]
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/e9254681-d4d8-43c7-a3c5-043c32a625a0)

## Groq
> groq API key: [wow.groq.com](https://wow.groq.com/)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided.

- **Temperature:** If you set a temperature value of 0, it will be converted to 1e-8. If you run into any issues, please try setting the value to a float32 greater than 0 and less than or equal to 2.

- Groq is currently free but rate limited: 10 queries/minute, 100/hour.

```yaml
    - name: "groq"
      apiKey: "${GROQ_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.groq.com/openai/v1/"
      models:
        default: [
          "llama3-70b-8192",
          "llama3-8b-8192",
          "llama2-70b-4096",
          "mixtral-8x7b-32768",
          "gemma-7b-it",
          ]
        fetch: false
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "mixtral-8x7b-32768"
      modelDisplayLabel: "groq"
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/110412045/cc4f0710-7e27-4f82-8b4f-81f788a6cb13)


## LiteLLM
> LiteLLM API key: master_key value [LiteLLM](./litellm.md)

**Notes:**

- Reference [LiteLLM](./litellm.md) for configuration.

```yaml
    - name: "LiteLLM"
      apiKey: "sk-from-config-file"
      baseURL: "http://localhost:8000/v1"
      # if using LiteLLM example in docker-compose.override.yml.example, use "http://litellm:8000/v1"
      models:
        default: ["gpt-3.5-turbo"]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "gpt-3.5-turbo"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "gpt-3.5-turbo"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "LiteLLM"
```

## Mistral AI
> Mistral API key: [console.mistral.ai](https://console.mistral.ai/)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided, special handling of message roles: system message is only allowed at the top of the messages payload.

- API is strict with unrecognized parameters and errors are not descriptive (usually "no body")

    - The use of [`dropParams`](./custom_config.md#dropparams) to drop "user", "frequency_penalty", "presence_penalty" params is required.
    - `stop` is no longer included as a default parameter, so there is no longer a need to include it in [`dropParams`](./custom_config.md#dropparams), unless you would like to completely prevent users from configuring this field.
    
- Allows fetching the models list, but be careful not to use embedding models for chat.

```yaml
    - name: "Mistral"
      apiKey: "${MISTRAL_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.mistral.ai/v1"
      models:
        default: ["mistral-tiny", "mistral-small", "mistral-medium", "mistral-large-latest"]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "mistral-tiny"
      modelDisplayLabel: "Mistral"
      # Drop Default params parameters from the request. See default params in guide linked below.
      # NOTE: For Mistral, it is necessary to drop the following parameters or you will encounter a 422 Error:
      dropParams: ["stop", "user", "frequency_penalty", "presence_penalty"]
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/110412045/ddb4b2f3-608e-4034-9a27-3e94fc512034)

## Ollama
> Ollama API key: Required but ignored - [Ollama OpenAI Compatibility](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/openai.md)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided.
- **Known issue:** fetching list of models is not supported. See [Pull Request 2728](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/pull/2728).
- Download models with ollama run command. See [Ollama Library](https://ollama.com/library)
- It's recommend to use the value "current_model" for the `titleModel` to avoid loading more than 1 model per conversation.
    - Doing so will dynamically use the current conversation model for the title generation.
- The example includes a top 5 popular model list from the Ollama Library, which was last updated on March 1, 2024, for your convenience.

```yaml
    - name: "Ollama"
      apiKey: "ollama"
      # use 'host.docker.internal' instead of localhost if running LibreChat in a docker container
      baseURL: "http://localhost:11434/v1/chat/completions" 
      models:
        default: [
          "llama2",
          "mistral",
          "codellama",
          "dolphin-mixtral",
          "mistral-openorca"
          ]
        fetch: false # fetching list of models is not supported
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "current_model"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "current_model"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "Ollama"
```

!!! tip "Ollama -> llama3"
    
    Note: Once `stop` was removed from the [default parameters](./custom_config.md#default-parameters), the issue highlighted below should no longer exist.

    However, in case you experience the behavior where `llama3` does not stop generating, add this `addParams` block to the config:
    
    ```yaml
    - name: "Ollama"
      apiKey: "ollama"
      baseURL: "http://host.docker.internal:11434/v1/" 
      models:
        default: [
          "llama3"
          ]
        fetch: false # fetching list of models is not supported
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "current_model"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "current_model"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "Ollama"
      addParams:
            "stop": [
              "<|start_header_id|>",
              "<|end_header_id|>",
              "<|eot_id|>",
              "<|reserved_special_token"
            ]
    ```

    If you are only using `llama3` with **Ollama**, it's fine to set the `stop` parameter at the config level via `addParams`.

    However, if you are using multiple models, it's now recommended to add stop sequences from the frontend via conversation parameters and presets.

    For example, we can omit `addParams`:

    ```yaml
    - name: "Ollama"
      apiKey: "ollama"
      baseURL: "http://host.docker.internal:11434/v1/" 
      models:
        default: [
          "llama3:latest",
          "mistral"
          ]
        fetch: false # fetching list of models is not supported
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "current_model"
      modelDisplayLabel: "Ollama"
    ```

    And use these settings (best to also save it):

    ![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/110412045/57460b8c-308a-4d21-9dfe-f48a2ac85099)

## Openrouter
> OpenRouter API key: [openrouter.ai/keys](https://openrouter.ai/keys)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided, fetching list of models is recommended as API token rates and pricing used for token credit balances when models are fetched.

- `stop` is no longer included as a default parameter, so there is no longer a need to include it in [`dropParams`](./custom_config.md#dropparams), unless you would like to completely prevent users from configuring this field.

- **Known issue:** you should not use `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` as it will then override the `openAI` endpoint to use OpenRouter as well.

```yaml
    - name: "OpenRouter"
      # For `apiKey` and `baseURL`, you can use environment variables that you define.
      # recommended environment variables:
      apiKey: "${OPENROUTER_KEY}" # NOT OPENROUTER_API_KEY
      baseURL: "https://openrouter.ai/api/v1"
      models:
        default: ["meta-llama/llama-3-70b-instruct"]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "meta-llama/llama-3-70b-instruct"
      # Recommended: Drop the stop parameter from the request as Openrouter models use a variety of stop tokens.
      dropParams: ["stop"]
      modelDisplayLabel: "OpenRouter"
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/110412045/c4a0415e-732c-46af-82a6-3598663b7f42)


## Perplexity
> Perplexity API key: [perplexity.ai/settings/api](https://www.perplexity.ai/settings/api)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided.
- **Known issue:** fetching list of models is not supported.
- API may be strict for some models, and may not allow fields like `stop` and `frequency_penalty` may cause an error when set to 0, in which case, you should use [`dropParams`.](./custom_config.md#dropparams)
- The example includes a model list, which was last updated on February 27, 2024, for your convenience.

```yaml
    - name: "Perplexity"
      apiKey: "${PERPLEXITY_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.perplexity.ai/"
      models:
        default: [
          "mistral-7b-instruct",
          "sonar-small-chat",
          "sonar-small-online",
          "sonar-medium-chat",
          "sonar-medium-online"
          ]
        fetch: false # fetching list of models is not supported
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "sonar-medium-chat"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "sonar-medium-chat"
      forcePrompt: false
      dropParams: ["stop", "frequency_penalty"]
      modelDisplayLabel: "Perplexity"
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/6bf6c121-0895-4210-a1dd-e5e957992fd4)

## ShuttleAI
> ShuttleAI API key: [shuttleai.app/keys](https://shuttleai.app/keys)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided, fetching list of models is recommended.

```yaml
    - name: "ShuttleAI"
      apiKey: "${SHUTTLEAI_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.shuttleai.app/v1"
      models:
        default: [
          "shuttle-1", "shuttle-turbo"
          ]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "gemini-pro"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "llama-summarize"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "ShuttleAI"
      dropParams: ["user"]
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/a694e6d0-5663-4c89-92b5-887742dca876)

## together.ai
> together.ai API key: [api.together.xyz/settings/api-keys](https://api.together.xyz/settings/api-keys)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided.
- **Known issue:** fetching list of models is not supported.
- The example includes a model list, which was last updated on February 27, 2024, for your convenience.

```yaml
    - name: "together.ai"
      apiKey: "${TOGETHERAI_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.together.xyz"
      models:
        default: [
          "zero-one-ai/Yi-34B-Chat",
          "Austism/chronos-hermes-13b",
          "DiscoResearch/DiscoLM-mixtral-8x7b-v2",
          "Gryphe/MythoMax-L2-13b",
          "lmsys/vicuna-13b-v1.5",
          "lmsys/vicuna-7b-v1.5",
          "lmsys/vicuna-13b-v1.5-16k",
          "codellama/CodeLlama-13b-Instruct-hf",
          "codellama/CodeLlama-34b-Instruct-hf",
          "codellama/CodeLlama-70b-Instruct-hf",
          "codellama/CodeLlama-7b-Instruct-hf",
          "togethercomputer/llama-2-13b-chat",
          "togethercomputer/llama-2-70b-chat",
          "togethercomputer/llama-2-7b-chat",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Capybara-7B-V1p9",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Hermes-2-Mixtral-8x7B-DPO",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Hermes-2-Mixtral-8x7B-SFT",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Hermes-Llama2-70b",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Hermes-llama-2-7b",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Hermes-Llama2-13b",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Hermes-2-Yi-34B",
          "openchat/openchat-3.5-1210",
          "Open-Orca/Mistral-7B-OpenOrca",
          "togethercomputer/Qwen-7B-Chat",
          "snorkelai/Snorkel-Mistral-PairRM-DPO",
          "togethercomputer/alpaca-7b",
          "togethercomputer/falcon-40b-instruct",
          "togethercomputer/falcon-7b-instruct",
          "togethercomputer/GPT-NeoXT-Chat-Base-20B",
          "togethercomputer/Llama-2-7B-32K-Instruct",
          "togethercomputer/Pythia-Chat-Base-7B-v0.16",
          "togethercomputer/RedPajama-INCITE-Chat-3B-v1",
          "togethercomputer/RedPajama-INCITE-7B-Chat",
          "togethercomputer/StripedHyena-Nous-7B",
          "Undi95/ReMM-SLERP-L2-13B",
          "Undi95/Toppy-M-7B",
          "WizardLM/WizardLM-13B-V1.2",
          "garage-bAInd/Platypus2-70B-instruct",
          "mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.1",
          "mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2",
          "mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1",
          "teknium/OpenHermes-2-Mistral-7B",
          "teknium/OpenHermes-2p5-Mistral-7B",
          "upstage/SOLAR-10.7B-Instruct-v1.0"
          ]
        fetch: false # fetching list of models is not supported
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "togethercomputer/llama-2-7b-chat"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "togethercomputer/llama-2-7b-chat"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "together.ai"
```

Commit message:

🦙 feat: Fetch list of Ollama Models (#2565)
* 🦙 feat: Fetch list of Ollama Models

* style: better Tag text styling for light mode

docs/install/configuration/ai_endpoints.md, after:

---
title: ✅ Compatible AI Endpoints
description: List of known, compatible AI Endpoints with example setups for the `librechat.yaml` AKA the LibreChat Custom Config file.
weight: -9
---

# Compatible AI Endpoints

## Intro

This page lists known, compatible AI Endpoints with example setups for the `librechat.yaml` file, also known as the [Custom Config](./custom_config.md#custom-endpoint-object-structure) file.

In all of the examples, arbitrary environment variable names are defined but you can use any name you wish, as well as changing the value to `user_provided` to allow users to submit their own API key from the web UI.

Some of the endpoints are marked as **Known,** which means they might have special handling and/or an icon already provided in the app for you.

## Anyscale
> Anyscale API key: [anyscale.com/credentials](https://app.endpoints.anyscale.com/credentials)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided, fetching list of models is recommended.

```yaml
    - name: "Anyscale"
      apiKey: "${ANYSCALE_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.endpoints.anyscale.com/v1"
      models:
        default: [
          "meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf",
          ]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "Anyscale"
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/9f2d8ad9-3f49-4fe3-a3ed-c85994c1c85f)

## APIpie

> APIpie API key: [apipie.ai/dashboard/profile/api-keys](https://apipie.ai/dashboard/profile/api-keys)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided, fetching list of models is recommended as API token rates and pricing used for token credit balances when models are fetched.

- **Known issue:** 
  - Fetching list of models is not supported.
  - Your success may vary with conversation titling
  - Stream isn't currently supported (but is planned as of April 24, 2024)
  - Certain models may be strict not allow certain fields in which case, you should use [`dropParams`.](./custom_config.md#dropparams)

??? tip "Fetch models"
    This python script can fetch and order the llm models for you. The output will be saved in models.txt, formated in a way that should make it easier for you to include in the yaml config.

    Replace `<YOUR_API_KEY_HERE>` with your actual APIpie API key

    ```py title="fetch.py"
    import json
    import requests

    def fetch_and_order_models():
        # API endpoint
        url = "https://apipie.ai/models?type=llm"

        # headers as per request example
        headers = {
            'Accept': 'application/json',
            'X-API-key': '<YOUR_API_KEY_HERE>'
        }

        # make request
        response = requests.request("GET", url, headers=headers)

        # parse JSON response
        data = json.loads(response.text)

        # extract an ordered list of unique model IDs
        model_ids = sorted(set(model['id'] for model in data))

        # add quotes around model_ids and newlines for each model
        quoted_model_ids = ['  "' + str(model_id) + '",\n' for model_id in model_ids]

        # construct the output string
        output_str = 'models:\n  default: [\n' + ''.join(quoted_model_ids) + ']\n'

        # remove last comma and newline
        output_str = output_str.rstrip(',\n') + '\n'

        # write result to a text file
        with open('models.txt', 'w') as file:
            file.write(output_str)

    # execute the function
    if __name__ == '__main__':
        fetch_and_order_models()
    ```

```yaml
    # APIpie
    - name: "APIpie"
      apiKey: "${APIPIE_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://apipie.ai/v1/"
      models:
        default: [
          "gpt-4",
          "gpt-4-turbo",
          "gpt-3.5-turbo",
          "claude-3-opus",
          "claude-3-sonnet",
          "claude-3-haiku",
          "llama-3-70b-instruct",
          "llama-3-8b-instruct",
          "gemini-pro-1.5",
          "gemini-pro",
          "mistral-large",
          "mistral-medium",
          "mistral-small",
          "mistral-tiny",
          "mixtral-8x22b",
          ]
        fetch: false
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "claude-3-haiku"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "claude-3-haiku"
      dropParams: ["stream"]
      modelDisplayLabel: "APIpie"
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/b6a21524-b309-4a51-8b88-c280fb330af4)


## Cohere
> Cohere API key: [dashboard.cohere.com](https://dashboard.cohere.com/)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided.
- Experimental: does not follow OpenAI-spec, uses a new method for endpoint compatibility, shares some similarities and parameters.
- For a full list of Cohere-specific parameters, see the [Cohere API documentation](https://docs.cohere.com/reference/chat).
- Note: The following parameters are recognized between OpenAI and Cohere. Most are removed in the example config below to prefer Cohere's default settings:
    - `stop`: mapped to `stopSequences`
    - `top_p`: mapped to `p`, different min/max values
    - `frequency_penalty`: mapped to `frequencyPenalty`, different min/max values
    - `presence_penalty`: mapped to `presencePenalty`, different min/max values
    - `model`: shared, included by default.
    - `stream`: shared, included by default.
    - `max_tokens`: shared, mapped to `maxTokens`, not included by default.


```yaml
    - name: "cohere"
      apiKey: "${COHERE_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.cohere.ai/v1"
      models:
        default: ["command-r","command-r-plus","command-light","command-light-nightly","command","command-nightly"]
        fetch: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "cohere"
      titleModel: "command"
      dropParams: ["stop", "user", "frequency_penalty", "presence_penalty", "temperature", "top_p"]
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/110412045/03549e00-243c-4539-ac9a-0d782af7cd6c)


## Fireworks
> Fireworks API key: [fireworks.ai/api-keys](https://fireworks.ai/api-keys)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided, fetching list of models is recommended.
- - API may be strict for some models, and may not allow fields like `user`, in which case, you should use [`dropParams`.](./custom_config.md#dropparams)

```yaml
    - name: "Fireworks"
      apiKey: "${FIREWORKS_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.fireworks.ai/inference/v1"
      models:
        default: [
          "accounts/fireworks/models/mixtral-8x7b-instruct",
          ]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "accounts/fireworks/models/llama-v2-7b-chat"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "accounts/fireworks/models/llama-v2-7b-chat"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "Fireworks"
      dropParams: ["user"]
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/e9254681-d4d8-43c7-a3c5-043c32a625a0)

## Groq
> groq API key: [wow.groq.com](https://wow.groq.com/)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided.

- **Temperature:** If you set a temperature value of 0, it will be converted to 1e-8. If you run into any issues, please try setting the value to a float32 greater than 0 and less than or equal to 2.

- Groq is currently free but rate limited: 10 queries/minute, 100/hour.

```yaml
    - name: "groq"
      apiKey: "${GROQ_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.groq.com/openai/v1/"
      models:
        default: [
          "llama3-70b-8192",
          "llama3-8b-8192",
          "llama2-70b-4096",
          "mixtral-8x7b-32768",
          "gemma-7b-it",
          ]
        fetch: false
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "mixtral-8x7b-32768"
      modelDisplayLabel: "groq"
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/110412045/cc4f0710-7e27-4f82-8b4f-81f788a6cb13)


## LiteLLM
> LiteLLM API key: master_key value [LiteLLM](./litellm.md)

**Notes:**

- Reference [LiteLLM](./litellm.md) for configuration.

```yaml
    - name: "LiteLLM"
      apiKey: "sk-from-config-file"
      baseURL: "http://localhost:8000/v1"
      # if using LiteLLM example in docker-compose.override.yml.example, use "http://litellm:8000/v1"
      models:
        default: ["gpt-3.5-turbo"]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "gpt-3.5-turbo"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "gpt-3.5-turbo"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "LiteLLM"
```

## Mistral AI
> Mistral API key: [console.mistral.ai](https://console.mistral.ai/)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided, special handling of message roles: system message is only allowed at the top of the messages payload.

- API is strict with unrecognized parameters and errors are not descriptive (usually "no body")

    - The use of [`dropParams`](./custom_config.md#dropparams) to drop "user", "frequency_penalty", "presence_penalty" params is required.
    - `stop` is no longer included as a default parameter, so there is no longer a need to include it in [`dropParams`](./custom_config.md#dropparams), unless you would like to completely prevent users from configuring this field.
    
- Allows fetching the models list, but be careful not to use embedding models for chat.

```yaml
    - name: "Mistral"
      apiKey: "${MISTRAL_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.mistral.ai/v1"
      models:
        default: ["mistral-tiny", "mistral-small", "mistral-medium", "mistral-large-latest"]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "mistral-tiny"
      modelDisplayLabel: "Mistral"
      # Drop Default params parameters from the request. See default params in guide linked below.
      # NOTE: For Mistral, it is necessary to drop the following parameters or you will encounter a 422 Error:
      dropParams: ["stop", "user", "frequency_penalty", "presence_penalty"]
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/110412045/ddb4b2f3-608e-4034-9a27-3e94fc512034)

## Ollama
> Ollama API key: Required but ignored - [Ollama OpenAI Compatibility](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/blob/main/docs/openai.md)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided.
- Download models with ollama run command. See [Ollama Library](https://ollama.com/library)
- It's recommend to use the value "current_model" for the `titleModel` to avoid loading more than 1 model per conversation.
    - Doing so will dynamically use the current conversation model for the title generation.
- The example includes a top 5 popular model list from the Ollama Library, which was last updated on March 1, 2024, for your convenience.

```yaml
    - name: "Ollama"
      apiKey: "ollama"
      # use 'host.docker.internal' instead of localhost if running LibreChat in a docker container
      baseURL: "http://localhost:11434/v1/chat/completions" 
      models:
        default: [
          "llama2",
          "mistral",
          "codellama",
          "dolphin-mixtral",
          "mistral-openorca"
          ]
      # fetching list of models is supported but the `name` field must start
      # with `ollama` (case-insensitive), as it does in this example.
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "current_model"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "current_model"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "Ollama"
```

!!! tip "Ollama -> llama3"
    
    Note: Once `stop` was removed from the [default parameters](./custom_config.md#default-parameters), the issue highlighted below should no longer exist.

    However, in case you experience the behavior where `llama3` does not stop generating, add this `addParams` block to the config:
    
    ```yaml
    - name: "Ollama"
      apiKey: "ollama"
      baseURL: "http://host.docker.internal:11434/v1/" 
      models:
        default: [
          "llama3"
          ]
        fetch: false # fetching list of models is not supported
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "current_model"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "current_model"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "Ollama"
      addParams:
            "stop": [
              "<|start_header_id|>",
              "<|end_header_id|>",
              "<|eot_id|>",
              "<|reserved_special_token"
            ]
    ```

    If you are only using `llama3` with **Ollama**, it's fine to set the `stop` parameter at the config level via `addParams`.

    However, if you are using multiple models, it's now recommended to add stop sequences from the frontend via conversation parameters and presets.

    For example, we can omit `addParams`:

    ```yaml
    - name: "Ollama"
      apiKey: "ollama"
      baseURL: "http://host.docker.internal:11434/v1/" 
      models:
        default: [
          "llama3:latest",
          "mistral"
          ]
        fetch: false # fetching list of models is not supported
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "current_model"
      modelDisplayLabel: "Ollama"
    ```

    And use these settings (best to also save it):

    ![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/110412045/57460b8c-308a-4d21-9dfe-f48a2ac85099)

## Openrouter
> OpenRouter API key: [openrouter.ai/keys](https://openrouter.ai/keys)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided, fetching list of models is recommended as API token rates and pricing used for token credit balances when models are fetched.

- `stop` is no longer included as a default parameter, so there is no longer a need to include it in [`dropParams`](./custom_config.md#dropparams), unless you would like to completely prevent users from configuring this field.

- **Known issue:** you should not use `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` as it will then override the `openAI` endpoint to use OpenRouter as well.

```yaml
    - name: "OpenRouter"
      # For `apiKey` and `baseURL`, you can use environment variables that you define.
      # recommended environment variables:
      apiKey: "${OPENROUTER_KEY}" # NOT OPENROUTER_API_KEY
      baseURL: "https://openrouter.ai/api/v1"
      models:
        default: ["meta-llama/llama-3-70b-instruct"]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "meta-llama/llama-3-70b-instruct"
      # Recommended: Drop the stop parameter from the request as Openrouter models use a variety of stop tokens.
      dropParams: ["stop"]
      modelDisplayLabel: "OpenRouter"
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/110412045/c4a0415e-732c-46af-82a6-3598663b7f42)


## Perplexity
> Perplexity API key: [perplexity.ai/settings/api](https://www.perplexity.ai/settings/api)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided.
- **Known issue:** fetching list of models is not supported.
- API may be strict for some models, and may not allow fields like `stop` and `frequency_penalty` may cause an error when set to 0, in which case, you should use [`dropParams`.](./custom_config.md#dropparams)
- The example includes a model list, which was last updated on February 27, 2024, for your convenience.

```yaml
    - name: "Perplexity"
      apiKey: "${PERPLEXITY_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.perplexity.ai/"
      models:
        default: [
          "mistral-7b-instruct",
          "sonar-small-chat",
          "sonar-small-online",
          "sonar-medium-chat",
          "sonar-medium-online"
          ]
        fetch: false # fetching list of models is not supported
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "sonar-medium-chat"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "sonar-medium-chat"
      forcePrompt: false
      dropParams: ["stop", "frequency_penalty"]
      modelDisplayLabel: "Perplexity"
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/6bf6c121-0895-4210-a1dd-e5e957992fd4)

## ShuttleAI
> ShuttleAI API key: [shuttleai.app/keys](https://shuttleai.app/keys)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided, fetching list of models is recommended.

```yaml
    - name: "ShuttleAI"
      apiKey: "${SHUTTLEAI_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.shuttleai.app/v1"
      models:
        default: [
          "shuttle-1", "shuttle-turbo"
          ]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "gemini-pro"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "llama-summarize"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "ShuttleAI"
      dropParams: ["user"]
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/a694e6d0-5663-4c89-92b5-887742dca876)

## together.ai
> together.ai API key: [api.together.xyz/settings/api-keys](https://api.together.xyz/settings/api-keys)

**Notes:**

- **Known:** icon provided.
- **Known issue:** fetching list of models is not supported.
- The example includes a model list, which was last updated on February 27, 2024, for your convenience.

```yaml
    - name: "together.ai"
      apiKey: "${TOGETHERAI_API_KEY}"
      baseURL: "https://api.together.xyz"
      models:
        default: [
          "zero-one-ai/Yi-34B-Chat",
          "Austism/chronos-hermes-13b",
          "DiscoResearch/DiscoLM-mixtral-8x7b-v2",
          "Gryphe/MythoMax-L2-13b",
          "lmsys/vicuna-13b-v1.5",
          "lmsys/vicuna-7b-v1.5",
          "lmsys/vicuna-13b-v1.5-16k",
          "codellama/CodeLlama-13b-Instruct-hf",
          "codellama/CodeLlama-34b-Instruct-hf",
          "codellama/CodeLlama-70b-Instruct-hf",
          "codellama/CodeLlama-7b-Instruct-hf",
          "togethercomputer/llama-2-13b-chat",
          "togethercomputer/llama-2-70b-chat",
          "togethercomputer/llama-2-7b-chat",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Capybara-7B-V1p9",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Hermes-2-Mixtral-8x7B-DPO",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Hermes-2-Mixtral-8x7B-SFT",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Hermes-Llama2-70b",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Hermes-llama-2-7b",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Hermes-Llama2-13b",
          "NousResearch/Nous-Hermes-2-Yi-34B",
          "openchat/openchat-3.5-1210",
          "Open-Orca/Mistral-7B-OpenOrca",
          "togethercomputer/Qwen-7B-Chat",
          "snorkelai/Snorkel-Mistral-PairRM-DPO",
          "togethercomputer/alpaca-7b",
          "togethercomputer/falcon-40b-instruct",
          "togethercomputer/falcon-7b-instruct",
          "togethercomputer/GPT-NeoXT-Chat-Base-20B",
          "togethercomputer/Llama-2-7B-32K-Instruct",
          "togethercomputer/Pythia-Chat-Base-7B-v0.16",
          "togethercomputer/RedPajama-INCITE-Chat-3B-v1",
          "togethercomputer/RedPajama-INCITE-7B-Chat",
          "togethercomputer/StripedHyena-Nous-7B",
          "Undi95/ReMM-SLERP-L2-13B",
          "Undi95/Toppy-M-7B",
          "WizardLM/WizardLM-13B-V1.2",
          "garage-bAInd/Platypus2-70B-instruct",
          "mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.1",
          "mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2",
          "mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1",
          "teknium/OpenHermes-2-Mistral-7B",
          "teknium/OpenHermes-2p5-Mistral-7B",
          "upstage/SOLAR-10.7B-Instruct-v1.0"
          ]
        fetch: false # fetching list of models is not supported
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "togethercomputer/llama-2-7b-chat"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "togethercomputer/llama-2-7b-chat"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "together.ai"
```
