docs/install/configuration/litellm.md, before:

---
title: 🚅 LiteLLM
description: Using LibreChat with LiteLLM Proxy 
weight: -7
---

# Using LibreChat with LiteLLM Proxy 
Use **[LiteLLM Proxy](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/simple_proxy)** for: 

* Calling 100+ LLMs Huggingface/Bedrock/TogetherAI/etc. in the OpenAI ChatCompletions & Completions format
* Load balancing - between Multiple Models + Deployments of the same model LiteLLM proxy can handle 1k+ requests/second during load tests
* Authentication & Spend Tracking Virtual Keys

## Start LiteLLM Proxy Server 

## 1. Uncomment desired sections in docker-compose.override.yml
The override file contains sections for the below LiteLLM features

Minimum working `docker-compose.override.yml` Example:

```yaml
litellm:
    image: ghcr.io/berriai/litellm:main-latest
    volumes:
      - ./litellm/litellm-config.yaml:/app/config.yaml
      # NOTE: For Google - required auth "GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS" envronment and volume mount
      # This also means you need to add the `application_default_credentaials.json` file within ~/litellm
      - ./litellm/application_default_credentials.json:/app/application_default_credentials.json
    ports:
      - "4000:8000"
    command: [ "--config", "/app/config.yaml", "--port", "8000", "--num_workers", "8" ]
    For Google - see above about required auth "GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS" envronment and volume mount
    environment:
      GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS: /app/application_default_credentials.json
```

### Caching with Redis
Litellm supports in-memory, redis, and s3 caching. Note: Caching currently only works with exact matching.

### Performance Monitoring with Langfuse
Litellm supports various logging and observability options.  The settings below will enable Langfuse which will provide a cache_hit tag showing which conversations used cache.

## 2. Create a Config for LiteLLM proxy 
LiteLLM requires a configuration file in addition to the override file. Within LibreChat, this will be `litellm/litellm-config.yml`. The file 
below has the options to enable llm proxy to various providers, load balancing, Redis caching, and Langfuse monitoring. Review documentation for other configuration options.
More information on LiteLLM configurations here: **[docs.litellm.ai/docs/simple_proxy](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/simple_proxy)**

### Working Example of incorporating OpenAI, Azure OpenAI, AWS Bedrock, and GCP

Please note the `...` being a secret or a value you should not share (API key, custom tenant endpoint, etc)
You can potentially use env variables for these too, ex: `api_key: "os.environ/AZURE_API_KEY" # does os.getenv("AZURE_API_KEY")`

??? abstract "Example A"

    ```yaml
    model_list:
      # https://litellm.vercel.app/docs/proxy/quick_start

      # Anthropic
      - model_name: claude-3-haiku
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/anthropic.claude-3-haiku-20240307-v1:0
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: claude-3-sonnet
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/anthropic.claude-3-sonnet-20240229-v1:0
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: claude-3-opus
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/anthropic.claude-3-opus-20240229-v1:0
          aws_region_name: us-west-2
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: claude-v2
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/anthropic.claude-v2:1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: claude-instant
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/anthropic.claude-instant-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      # Llama
      - model_name: llama2-13b
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/meta.llama2-13b-chat-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: llama2-70b
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/meta.llama2-70b-chat-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: llama3-8b
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/meta.llama3-8b-instruct-v1:0
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: llama3-70b
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/meta.llama3-70b-instruct-v1:0
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      # Mistral
      - model_name: mistral-7b-instruct
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/mistral.mistral-7b-instruct-v0:2
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: mixtral-8x7b-instruct
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/mistral.mixtral-8x7b-instruct-v0:1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: mixtral-large
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/mistral.mistral-large-2402-v1:0
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      # Cohere
      - model_name: cohere-command-v14
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/cohere.command-text-v14
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: cohere-command-light-v14
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/cohere.command-light-text-v14
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      # AI21 Labs
      - model_name: ai21-j2-mid
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/ai21.j2-mid-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: ai21-j2-ultra
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/ai21.j2-ultra-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      # Amazon
      - model_name: amazon-titan-lite
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/amazon.titan-text-lite-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: amazon-titan-express
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/amazon.titan-text-express-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      # Azure
      - model_name: azure-gpt-4-turbo-preview
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-4-turbo-preview
          api_base: https://tenant-name.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: azure-gpt-3.5-turbo
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-35-turbo
          api_base: https://tenant-name.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: azure-gpt-4
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-4
          api_base: https://tenant-name.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: azure-gpt-3.5-turbo-16k
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-35-turbo-16k
          api_base: https://tenant-name.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: azure-gpt-4-32k
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-4-32k
          api_base: https://tenant-name.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: ...

      # OpenAI
      - model_name: gpt-4-turbo
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-4-turbo
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: old-gpt-4-turbo-preview
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-4-turbo-preview
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: gpt-3.5-turbo
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-3.5-turbo
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: gpt-4
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-4
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: gpt-3.5-turbo-16k
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-3.5-turbo-16k
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: gpt-4-32k
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-4-32k
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: gpt-4-vision-preview
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-4-vision-preview
          api_key: ...

      # Google
      # NOTE: For Google - see above about required auth "GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS" environment and volume mount
      - model_name: google-chat-bison
        litellm_params:
          model: vertex_ai/chat-bison
          vertex_project: gcp-proj-name
          vertex_location: us-central1

      - model_name: google-chat-bison-32k
        litellm_params:
          model: vertex_ai/chat-bison-32k
          vertex_project: gcp-proj-name
          vertex_location: us-central1

      - model_name: google-gemini-pro-1.0
        litellm_params:
          model: vertex_ai/gemini-pro
          vertex_project: gcp-proj-name
          vertex_location: us-central1

      - model_name: google-gemini-pro-1.5-preview
        litellm_params:
          model: vertex_ai/gemini-1.5-pro-preview-0409
          vertex_project: gcp-proj-name
          vertex_location: us-central1

    # NOTE: It may be a good idea to comment out "success_callback", "cache", "cache_params" (both lines under) when you first start until this works!
    litellm_settings:
      success_callback: ["langfuse"]
      cache: True
      cache_params:
        type: "redis"
        supported_call_types: ["acompletion", "completion", "embedding", "aembedding"]
    general_settings:
      master_key: sk_live_SetToRandomValue
    ```

### Example of a few Different Options (ex: rpm, stream, ollama)

??? abstract "Example B"
    ```yaml
    model_list:
      - model_name: gpt-3.5-turbo
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-turbo-small-eu
          api_base: https://my-endpoint-europe-berri-992.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: 
          rpm: 6      # Rate limit for this deployment: in requests per minute (rpm)
      - model_name: gpt-3.5-turbo
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-turbo-small-ca
          api_base: https://my-endpoint-canada-berri992.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: 
          rpm: 6
      - model_name: gpt-3.5-turbo
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-turbo-large
          api_base: https://openai-france-1234.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: 
          rpm: 1440
      - model_name: mixtral
        litellm_params:
          model: openai/mixtral:8x7b-instruct-v0.1-q5_K_M      # use openai/* for ollama's openai api compatibility
          api_base: http://ollama:11434/v1
          stream: True
      - model_name: mistral
        litellm_params:
          model: openai/mistral                                # use openai/* for ollama's openai api compatibility
          api_base: http://ollama:11434/v1
          stream: True
    litellm_settings:
      success_callback: ["langfuse"]
      cache: True
      cache_params:
        type: "redis"
        supported_call_types: ["acompletion", "completion", "embedding", "aembedding"]
    general_settings:
      master_key: sk_live_SetToRandomValue
    ```

## 3. Configure LibreChat

Use `librechat.yaml` [Configuration file (guide here)](./ai_endpoints.md) to add Reverse Proxies as separate endpoints.

Here is an example config:

```yaml
custom:
    - name: "Lite LLM"
      # A place holder - otherwise it becomes the default (OpenAI) key
      # Provide the key instead in each "model" block within "litellm/litellm-config.yaml"
      apiKey: "sk-from-config-file"
      # See the required changes above in "Start LiteLLM Proxy Server" step.
      baseURL: "http://host.docker.internal:4000"
      # A "default" model to start new users with. The "fetch" will pull the rest of the available models from LiteLLM
      # More or less this is "irrelevant", you can pick any model. Just pick one you have defined in LiteLLM.
      models:
        default: ["gpt-3.5-turbo"]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "gpt-3.5-turbo"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "gpt-3.5-turbo"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "Lite LLM"
```

## Why use LiteLLM?

1. **Access to Multiple LLMs**: It allows calling over 100 LLMs from platforms like Huggingface, Bedrock, TogetherAI, etc., using OpenAI's ChatCompletions and Completions format.

2. **Load Balancing**: Capable of handling over 1,000 requests per second during load tests, it balances load across various models and deployments.

3. **Authentication & Spend Tracking**: The server supports virtual keys for authentication and tracks spending.

Key components and features include:

- **Installation**: Easy installation.
- **Testing**: Testing features to route requests to specific models.
- **Server Endpoints**: Offers multiple endpoints for chat completions, completions, embeddings, model lists, and key generation.
- **Supported LLMs**: Supports a wide range of LLMs, including AWS Bedrock, Azure OpenAI, Huggingface, AWS Sagemaker, Anthropic, and more.
- **Proxy Configurations**: Allows setting various parameters like model list, server settings, environment variables, and more.
- **Multiple Models Management**: Configurations can be set up for managing multiple models with fallbacks, cooldowns, retries, and timeouts.
- **Embedding Models Support**: Special configurations for embedding models.
- **Authentication Management**: Features for managing authentication through virtual keys, model upgrades/downgrades, and tracking spend.
- **Custom Configurations**: Supports setting model-specific parameters, caching responses, and custom prompt templates.
- **Debugging Tools**: Options for debugging and logging proxy input/output.
- **Deployment and Performance**: Information on deploying LiteLLM Proxy and its performance metrics.
- **Proxy CLI Arguments**: A wide range of command-line arguments for customization.

Overall, LiteLLM Server offers a comprehensive suite of tools for managing, deploying, and interacting with a variety of LLMs, making it a versatile choice for large-scale AI applications.

Commit message:

🚅 docs: load LiteLLM into LibreChat (#2573)
Documentation was missing one significant component, on loading librechat.yaml

docs/install/configuration/litellm.md, after:

---
title: 🚅 LiteLLM
description: Using LibreChat with LiteLLM Proxy 
weight: -7
---

# Using LibreChat with LiteLLM Proxy 
Use **[LiteLLM Proxy](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/simple_proxy)** for: 

* Calling 100+ LLMs Huggingface/Bedrock/TogetherAI/etc. in the OpenAI ChatCompletions & Completions format
* Load balancing - between Multiple Models + Deployments of the same model LiteLLM proxy can handle 1k+ requests/second during load tests
* Authentication & Spend Tracking Virtual Keys

## Start LiteLLM Proxy Server 

## 1. Uncomment desired sections in docker-compose.override.yml
The override file contains sections for the below LiteLLM features

Minimum working `docker-compose.override.yml` Example:

```yaml

# USE LIBRECHAT CONFIG FILE
# NOTE: It is critical to uncomment this, otherwise LibreChat will not register LiteLLM
  api:
    volumes:
    - type: bind
      source: ./librechat.yaml
      target: /app/librechat.yaml


litellm:
    image: ghcr.io/berriai/litellm:main-latest
    volumes:
      - ./litellm/litellm-config.yaml:/app/config.yaml
      # NOTE: For Google - required auth "GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS" envronment and volume mount
      # This also means you need to add the `application_default_credentaials.json` file within ~/litellm
      - ./litellm/application_default_credentials.json:/app/application_default_credentials.json
    ports:
      - "4000:8000"
    command: [ "--config", "/app/config.yaml", "--port", "8000", "--num_workers", "8" ]
    For Google - see above about required auth "GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS" envronment and volume mount
    environment:
      GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS: /app/application_default_credentials.json
```

### Caching with Redis
Litellm supports in-memory, redis, and s3 caching. Note: Caching currently only works with exact matching.

### Performance Monitoring with Langfuse
Litellm supports various logging and observability options.  The settings below will enable Langfuse which will provide a cache_hit tag showing which conversations used cache.

## 2. Create a Config for LiteLLM proxy 
LiteLLM requires a configuration file in addition to the override file. Within LibreChat, this will be `litellm/litellm-config.yml`. The file 
below has the options to enable llm proxy to various providers, load balancing, Redis caching, and Langfuse monitoring. Review documentation for other configuration options.
More information on LiteLLM configurations here: **[docs.litellm.ai/docs/simple_proxy](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/simple_proxy)**

### Working Example of incorporating OpenAI, Azure OpenAI, AWS Bedrock, and GCP

Please note the `...` being a secret or a value you should not share (API key, custom tenant endpoint, etc)
You can potentially use env variables for these too, ex: `api_key: "os.environ/AZURE_API_KEY" # does os.getenv("AZURE_API_KEY")`

??? abstract "Example A"

    ```yaml
    model_list:
      # https://litellm.vercel.app/docs/proxy/quick_start

      # Anthropic
      - model_name: claude-3-haiku
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/anthropic.claude-3-haiku-20240307-v1:0
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: claude-3-sonnet
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/anthropic.claude-3-sonnet-20240229-v1:0
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: claude-3-opus
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/anthropic.claude-3-opus-20240229-v1:0
          aws_region_name: us-west-2
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: claude-v2
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/anthropic.claude-v2:1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: claude-instant
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/anthropic.claude-instant-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      # Llama
      - model_name: llama2-13b
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/meta.llama2-13b-chat-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: llama2-70b
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/meta.llama2-70b-chat-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: llama3-8b
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/meta.llama3-8b-instruct-v1:0
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: llama3-70b
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/meta.llama3-70b-instruct-v1:0
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      # Mistral
      - model_name: mistral-7b-instruct
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/mistral.mistral-7b-instruct-v0:2
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: mixtral-8x7b-instruct
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/mistral.mixtral-8x7b-instruct-v0:1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: mixtral-large
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/mistral.mistral-large-2402-v1:0
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      # Cohere
      - model_name: cohere-command-v14
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/cohere.command-text-v14
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: cohere-command-light-v14
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/cohere.command-light-text-v14
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      # AI21 Labs
      - model_name: ai21-j2-mid
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/ai21.j2-mid-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: ai21-j2-ultra
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/ai21.j2-ultra-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      # Amazon
      - model_name: amazon-titan-lite
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/amazon.titan-text-lite-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      - model_name: amazon-titan-express
        litellm_params:
          model: bedrock/amazon.titan-text-express-v1
          aws_region_name: us-east-1
          aws_access_key_id: A...
          aws_secret_access_key: ...

      # Azure
      - model_name: azure-gpt-4-turbo-preview
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-4-turbo-preview
          api_base: https://tenant-name.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: azure-gpt-3.5-turbo
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-35-turbo
          api_base: https://tenant-name.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: azure-gpt-4
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-4
          api_base: https://tenant-name.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: azure-gpt-3.5-turbo-16k
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-35-turbo-16k
          api_base: https://tenant-name.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: azure-gpt-4-32k
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-4-32k
          api_base: https://tenant-name.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: ...

      # OpenAI
      - model_name: gpt-4-turbo
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-4-turbo
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: old-gpt-4-turbo-preview
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-4-turbo-preview
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: gpt-3.5-turbo
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-3.5-turbo
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: gpt-4
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-4
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: gpt-3.5-turbo-16k
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-3.5-turbo-16k
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: gpt-4-32k
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-4-32k
          api_key: ...

      - model_name: gpt-4-vision-preview
        litellm_params:
          model: gpt-4-vision-preview
          api_key: ...

      # Google
      # NOTE: For Google - see above about required auth "GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS" environment and volume mount
      - model_name: google-chat-bison
        litellm_params:
          model: vertex_ai/chat-bison
          vertex_project: gcp-proj-name
          vertex_location: us-central1

      - model_name: google-chat-bison-32k
        litellm_params:
          model: vertex_ai/chat-bison-32k
          vertex_project: gcp-proj-name
          vertex_location: us-central1

      - model_name: google-gemini-pro-1.0
        litellm_params:
          model: vertex_ai/gemini-pro
          vertex_project: gcp-proj-name
          vertex_location: us-central1

      - model_name: google-gemini-pro-1.5-preview
        litellm_params:
          model: vertex_ai/gemini-1.5-pro-preview-0409
          vertex_project: gcp-proj-name
          vertex_location: us-central1

    # NOTE: It may be a good idea to comment out "success_callback", "cache", "cache_params" (both lines under) when you first start until this works!
    litellm_settings:
      success_callback: ["langfuse"]
      cache: True
      cache_params:
        type: "redis"
        supported_call_types: ["acompletion", "completion", "embedding", "aembedding"]
    general_settings:
      master_key: sk_live_SetToRandomValue
    ```

### Example of a few Different Options (ex: rpm, stream, ollama)

??? abstract "Example B"
    ```yaml
    model_list:
      - model_name: gpt-3.5-turbo
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-turbo-small-eu
          api_base: https://my-endpoint-europe-berri-992.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: 
          rpm: 6      # Rate limit for this deployment: in requests per minute (rpm)
      - model_name: gpt-3.5-turbo
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-turbo-small-ca
          api_base: https://my-endpoint-canada-berri992.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: 
          rpm: 6
      - model_name: gpt-3.5-turbo
        litellm_params:
          model: azure/gpt-turbo-large
          api_base: https://openai-france-1234.openai.azure.com/
          api_key: 
          rpm: 1440
      - model_name: mixtral
        litellm_params:
          model: openai/mixtral:8x7b-instruct-v0.1-q5_K_M      # use openai/* for ollama's openai api compatibility
          api_base: http://ollama:11434/v1
          stream: True
      - model_name: mistral
        litellm_params:
          model: openai/mistral                                # use openai/* for ollama's openai api compatibility
          api_base: http://ollama:11434/v1
          stream: True
    litellm_settings:
      success_callback: ["langfuse"]
      cache: True
      cache_params:
        type: "redis"
        supported_call_types: ["acompletion", "completion", "embedding", "aembedding"]
    general_settings:
      master_key: sk_live_SetToRandomValue
    ```

## 3. Configure LibreChat

Use `librechat.yaml` [Configuration file (guide here)](./ai_endpoints.md) to add Reverse Proxies as separate endpoints.

Here is an example config:

```yaml
custom:
    - name: "Lite LLM"
      # A place holder - otherwise it becomes the default (OpenAI) key
      # Provide the key instead in each "model" block within "litellm/litellm-config.yaml"
      apiKey: "sk-from-config-file"
      # See the required changes above in "Start LiteLLM Proxy Server" step.
      baseURL: "http://host.docker.internal:4000"
      # A "default" model to start new users with. The "fetch" will pull the rest of the available models from LiteLLM
      # More or less this is "irrelevant", you can pick any model. Just pick one you have defined in LiteLLM.
      models:
        default: ["gpt-3.5-turbo"]
        fetch: true
      titleConvo: true
      titleModel: "gpt-3.5-turbo"
      summarize: false
      summaryModel: "gpt-3.5-turbo"
      forcePrompt: false
      modelDisplayLabel: "Lite LLM"
```

## Why use LiteLLM?

1. **Access to Multiple LLMs**: It allows calling over 100 LLMs from platforms like Huggingface, Bedrock, TogetherAI, etc., using OpenAI's ChatCompletions and Completions format.

2. **Load Balancing**: Capable of handling over 1,000 requests per second during load tests, it balances load across various models and deployments.

3. **Authentication & Spend Tracking**: The server supports virtual keys for authentication and tracks spending.

Key components and features include:

- **Installation**: Easy installation.
- **Testing**: Testing features to route requests to specific models.
- **Server Endpoints**: Offers multiple endpoints for chat completions, completions, embeddings, model lists, and key generation.
- **Supported LLMs**: Supports a wide range of LLMs, including AWS Bedrock, Azure OpenAI, Huggingface, AWS Sagemaker, Anthropic, and more.
- **Proxy Configurations**: Allows setting various parameters like model list, server settings, environment variables, and more.
- **Multiple Models Management**: Configurations can be set up for managing multiple models with fallbacks, cooldowns, retries, and timeouts.
- **Embedding Models Support**: Special configurations for embedding models.
- **Authentication Management**: Features for managing authentication through virtual keys, model upgrades/downgrades, and tracking spend.
- **Custom Configurations**: Supports setting model-specific parameters, caching responses, and custom prompt templates.
- **Debugging Tools**: Options for debugging and logging proxy input/output.
- **Deployment and Performance**: Information on deploying LiteLLM Proxy and its performance metrics.
- **Proxy CLI Arguments**: A wide range of command-line arguments for customization.

Overall, LiteLLM Server offers a comprehensive suite of tools for managing, deploying, and interacting with a variety of LLMs, making it a versatile choice for large-scale AI applications.
